---
layout: post
title: '[March 24, 2021] The Impact of Exposure to Heat Waves on Cognitive Performance'
subtitle: Dr. Xin Zhang, Beijing Normal University, School of Statistics
date: 2021-03-24
tags: event past
cover: 'assets/img/2021-03-24-zhangxin/cover.png'
---

# The Impact of Exposure to Heat Waves on Cognitive Performance

This paper examines the effect of transitory exposure to heat waves on cognitive performance by matching a nationally representative longitudinal survey in China with weather and climate data according to the exact time and geographic location of the cognitive tests. When respondents were tested on hot days (>85°F), their test scores dropped significantly. The negative effect was more pronounced for women and the older cohort, in particular for verbal tests. People who lived in the north or did not have air conditioning (AC) installed in their homes at the time of test were vulnerable to high temperatures, while those who lived in the south or who did have AC were not, indicating the existence of adaptation. The hidden cost of climate change on cognitive performance should be recognized in the assessment of climate policy.

## Dr. Xin Zhang
### Associate Professor at Beijing Normal University, School of Statistics

PhD in Economics, Peking University, China Center for Economic Research, 2017

#### Research Interest: 
Health Economics, Environmental Economics, and Labor Economics

Dr. Zhang has published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (PNAS), Journal of Environmental Economics and Management, Journal of Population Economics, Health Economics, and China Economic Quarterly, and has served as an anonymous reviewer for several journals. She has hosted the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) Youth Program and the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (CPSF) Surface Program and Special Grant Program as the leader of the project. Her research achievements were awarded the Third Prize of the Eighth Outstanding Achievement Award of Scientific Research in Higher Education (Humanities and Social Sciences).


<iframe style="width: 100%;height: 500px;" src="//player.bilibili.com/player.html?aid=247354900&bvid=BV1Yv41187Uc&cid=315745941&page=1" scrolling="no" border="0" frameborder="no" framespacing="0" allowfullscreen="true"> </iframe>
